FYP2013
=======

Abstract:
Dynamic random-access memories (DRAMs) are external memory devices that have been widely used in many electronic devices. Without refreshing memory cells within the chip periodically, the data stored inside is gradually lost. However, this refresh operation will degrade performance in terms of throughput, latency and power consumption. The conventional approach is to refresh every row within the chip at a refresh rate determined by the leakiest memory cell. (which is typically quoted as 64ms in contemporary memory devices) This refresh rate is determined without consideration of the variation of memory cells' leakage characteristics with operating temperature. Furthermore, every memory cell do not have the same leakage characteristic. Thus, refresh operation adopting the conventional method unnecessarily sacrifice performance performing redundant refreshes. 
This paper concerns the testing method for profiling an off-the-shelf DRAM memory cells' retention time distribution at different operating temperatures. The key idea is to design and implement an automatic testing method that gives consistent measurements with repeated experiments and determines memory cell retention time with high precision. This method can be easily reproduced on different boards with other DRAM chips. It will operate automatically so that all the operations and instructions will occur internally and realise the final testing result with high precision. For a SDRAM chip on an FPGA board, the testing samples show that at room temperature, 90% of the memory cells are safe with retention time of 290 seconds, 96 seconds at 50°C and 75 seconds at 75°C. Further, I have discussed some promising utilisation of this information from some complementary related works. All of them design their refresh scheme under consideration of retention time distribution that ultimately improve DRAM's performance.
